My favorite quote that I heard at a database development conference was, those people who have hard problems are blessed. And I like this quote because it implies that activists are probably the most blessed people on all of Earth. It is our job to go ahead and battle against the hardest battles with the most distant of odds. Whether that's collapsing income inequality and achieving some kind of equitable redistribution of resources in society. Whether that's... Whether that's successfully convincing oil and fossil fuel companies to take a $1 trillion loss because they won't be able to pollute anymore. Whether that's dismantling the 200-year-old institution of policing to create a more equitable world for all. All of these problems are almost impossible to solve. And so far, no one has been successful. Not for lack of trying. For every single one of these issues, hundreds of thousands of activists before you have tried their best throughout their entire lives to solve this problem and come up short. Which is, in some... Which is essentially why you are stuck working on this problem right now. One of the things I always wonder is, how can I... How can I or we succeed where everyone before us has failed? Because figuring out how to do that... That is necessary for building this movement going forward. And I don't know. I don't... I don't think I have the all... Actually, I don't think I should go unqualified with it. I don't have... I have some thoughts. Which is that... The human brain naturally pens itself towards thinking in a certain pattern. If you are trying to do an extremely hard thing... In life. It makes sense to... Not necessarily... It makes sense to follow a certain pattern. Which is, go ahead and get yourself in a relatively... Get yourself in a peer group of people that are doing it relatively competently. And then try to do everything that they are doing but just slightly better. I tend to think this works well for doing well in school. Or things like climbing or like doing... Doing well in school or having a good career. However, all of those tasks are kind of predicated on the fact that the average person makes it. So... Or like the average person in your peer group is succeeding at the task that they're doing. And if you just go ahead and copy what they're doing, you will succeed as well. I feel like this is a huge pattern in the... This is a huge pattern in the activist community with... With everyone... With new activists who are at a certain space. Will essentially copy the existing strategies of activist movements before them. Or activist movements that they were at previously. And apply them directly in a new context. And this is not a common thing among activists. Again, I think it happens everywhere. But the problem with this... Is that it only works if your... Peers are succeeding at what they are doing. In activism, 99.99 to 99.9% of actions fail. And one could argue almost none have succeeded. Even looking as far back as the civil rights movement. There's a good quote from Martin Luther King. Where he says that... We have gotten our rates... Where he said all of the gains that we've gotten through the civil rights movement. We've gotten at bargain rates. It didn't hurt the economy at all to desegregate. As a matter of fact, it helped... But now that we are facing the problems of poverty and inequality. That cannot be solved without costing the nation billions of dollars. Dismantling those kind of oppressive systems. Have maybe only successfully been accomplished. Never in the US. And maybe only like seven times in human history. So how would you actually do that? Well, it is going to require... The problem with implementing this strategy. Of copying what your activist peers are doing. Is that all of them statistically will fail. And you will fail right along with them. So copying isn't going to work. What could work? One of the frameworks that has been helpful for me. When it comes to thinking about this stuff. Is every time I try to do something new. I automatically instead of thinking about what are the things I want to re-implement. I like to think about all of the things that I did wrong. Or that the last team did wrong. The last time they tried to do an activist event. And as such. Think about ways that you could potentially accomplish. Think about ways that you could potentially be. In particular, try to think of ways. That if you could do it successfully. The movement could be a hundred or ten times to a hundred times as successful. As the last time you did something. Even if that involves risk. And I feel like this is another pattern. That I see a lot in the NGO space and beyond. Which is that doing things that have the. Which is that none of. There is no guaranteed way. To solve capitalism. Solve racism. Or like. Yeah. Solve climate change. Solve racism. Or solve income inequality. There is no risk-free way of achieving those goals. So often times a pattern that I've seen is that NGOs will go ahead and do things that will compromise on the fact that they might actually work and will instead go ahead and try to do things that are like guaranteed to be stable that will things that will not break the group apart things that will not risk their fundraising efforts and so on and so forth under the intuition that under the intuition that like ultimately it's ultimately. It's them thinking that they're doing a good thing I don't know that thought is probably better as a separate article but the point that I'm trying to make is that there's no way to de-risk the fact that activism is going to fail most of the time an amazingly successful action in my books fails ninety-nine percent of the time. So. And one percent of the time it has the chance of achieving long-lasting material change for people in their day-to-day lives. And at some level I think that's all you can really expect out of this. And it's really easy to like compromise that last bit away. And actions that are like this most of the time people most of the time they are dismissed. Like at least in my experience I think most of the time they're dismissed. Are the the story of our children's of how our children's trust was founded always sticks with me. Where Mary Wood went around the country giving book tours for. Giving book tours for her book about the public trust doctrine. And after she had done her entire book tour and no one had been interested in actually implementing those ideas. She decided to give a lecture. At her alma mater at Oregon State University. And that was the talk that Julia was at. Julia Olson founder of our children's trust. And she decided to go ahead and give it a go. The point is is that and since then they have since then that organization has been tremendously successful. Especially in their latest cases in Wyoming and Hawaii. Or Montana and Hawaii rather. And it also came I also think the the main one of their main cases the Juliana case. If things had gone differently. Could have potentially been the single most impactful climate change. Action that the United States had ever taken. If things had gone if things had been more lucky. And the point of this is that like. That idea did people did not think that idea. But by the thing I take away from that story is that people did not think this idea was going to work. Most of people across the country did not bite on it. And it took Julia literally like the last stop to actually try to implement that. And even. At the beginning throughout all of these cases people never thought it. People were never certain it was going to work. The the those the the support of our case range from this is never going to work. It's impossible to this has a very small chance of working. But it's still almost certainly going to fail. And I think that's and I think that that's like one of the things that. Is important to remember is that winning is going to involve a lot of experimentation. It's going to involve trying it's going to involve taking what came before and then applying new twist on it. And trying as best as possible to get these get our current organizing tools. Get our current organizing tools to a better spot where they can actually work and invent new organizing tools. As well as many new organizing tools. And that's going to involve and that's going to involve. And that's going to involve having to do something new because what we have done for hundreds of years has not worked nothing has worked in the past hundred years nothing has really worked like on it like a real level in the last hundred years so yeah.
